Details on force field files in ff19SB

In ff19SB, we updated the backbone phi/psi dihedral parameters for every standard amino acid, with different amino acids using different parameters. These new dihedral parameters include amino-acid specific CMAPs that are based on residue name, and the zeroed backbone phi/psi dihedral parameters (in atom name, C-N-CA-C, N-CA-C-N, C-N-CA-CB, CB-CA-C-N, HA-CA-C-O) from ff14SB that are based on the atom types. 
In order to totally separate the new ff19SB parameters from the original ff14SB parameters, we created a new atom type XC for C-alpha for all non-terminal residues. All the bonds, angles, non-bonded parameters, and dihedral parameters excluding the backbone phi/psi dihedral parameters that involve C-alpha, are retained from ff14SB, but we replaced the old ff14SB atom type CX with the new type XC for C-alpha. All the backbone phi/psi dihedral parameters involving XC have zero amplitude since it will use a CMAP instead. CMAP is applied to every non-terminal residue.
In ff19SB, we also updated non-bonded parameters for sulfur of Cys (including CYS, CYX and CYM) and Met (including MET), and for hydrogen attached to sulfur in CYS. These parameters were obtained from GAFF2.

Here below are the details on force field files in ff19SB:

parm19.dat
This is created in ff19SB. All parameters from parm10.dat were initially copied over. Then, all parameters involving CX except dihedral H1-CX-C-O were duplicated. The CX was replaced with XC in all duplicated lines. All parameters involving XC are identical to those with CX. H1-XC-C-O is not defined here since the parameters differ from H1-CX-C-O.

frcmod.ff19SB
This file was created for ff19SB. All parameters from frcmod.ff14SB were initially copied over from ff14SB. Then, all parameters involving CX were duplicated. The CX was replaced with XC in all duplicated lines. The dihedral H1-CX-C-O are copied over from parm10.dat. CX is replaced with XC for this dihedral. The magnitude of this dihedral are zerod. The Lennard-Jones parameters for S, SH were both obtained from atom type “s” (sulfur with one connected atom) from gaff2.dat, while Lennard-Jones parameters for HS were obtained from atom type “hs” (hydrogen bonded to sulphur) in gaff2.dat. The CMAP parameters were updated for all non-terminal residues.

amino19.dat
This was created in ff19SB. All parameters from amino12.lib were initially copied over. Then, CX (alpha carbon atom type in ff14SB) was replaced with XC for the entire file. None of the amino acids here should use CX atom type for the alpha carbon.

aminont12.lib
This is an old file from ff14SB and is not changed in ff19SB. ff19SB parameters are not applied to terminal amino acids that do not have both a phi and psi. aminont12.lib will be used for N-terminal amino acids.

aminoct12.lib
This is an old file from ff14SB and is not changed in ff19SB. ff19SB parameters are not applied to terminal amino acids that do not have both a phi and psi. aminoct12.lib will be used for C-terminal amino acids.

leaprc.protein.ff19SB
This is new for ff19SB. The goal of this file is to load in parm19.dat, frcmod.ff19SB, amino19.dat, aminont12.lib and aminoct12.lib. This files should be sourced inside leap.

Instructions for implementing ff19SB for a brand-new molecule or adding a non-standard residue
In ff19SB, the original ff14SB parameters are embedded with the atom type CX for C-alpha. So the user can choose to build topology file for pure ff19SB and mixed ff14SB/ff19SB via tleap. ff14SB will be applied to residues that use the CX atom type. However, the ff19SB CMAP is applied based on residue name, so it is important that residues using CX for C-alpha do not also match the residues names for the standard amino acids or else the CMAP will also be applied, giving incorrect results.

If the user chooses to apply ff14SB parameters to a non-standard amino acid or brand-new residue and apply ff19SB to everything else in the protein, please follow these steps:
Load leaprc.protein.ff19SB
Load the user-defined library file for that new residue, using the CX atom type for C-alpha. The residue name must not match the standard amino acids in ff19SB!
Follow the procedures for building tleap input 

If the user chooses to apply ff19SB parameters (using the LEU CMAP parameters that we recommend as the best generic model amino acid) to a non-standard amino acid or brand-new residue and also everything else in the protein:
Load leaprc.protein.ff19SB
Load the user-defined library file for that new residue, using XC for C-alpha.
Modify the provided implementation file frcmod.ff19SB_XXX by replacing XXX with the new residue name defined in library file from step 2.
Load the frcmod.ff19SB_XXX
Follow the procedures for building tleap input 

A few build ups that might go really wrong and even crazy, so these should be avoided!
Example 1:
The user chooses to apply ff19SB parameters to a non-standard amino acid or brand-new residue and also everything else in the protein. However, the user forgets about adding the new residue to the frcmod.ff19SB_XXX file. Then ,the non-standard amino acid or brand-new molecule will use ff14SB00 (defined in ff19SB paper) that is not really a force field. 
Example 2:
The user chooses to apply ff19SB parameters to a non-standard amino acid or brand-new residue and also everything else in the protein. However, the user forgets about using the XC atom type and still uses CX for C-alpha. The user creates the frcmod.ff19SB_XXX correctly. Then ,the non-standard amino acid or brand-new molecule will use ff14SB and also use the ff19SB CMAP which will double count the phi/psi dihedral parameters involving C-alpha and give incorrect results.

Examples to be continued...but hopefully not

